# Saturday
## 1. How does git work?  

working direction ---add--- staging area ---commit --- local repo --- git push --- remote repo(github) --- git pull back to--- local repo  


## 2. Learning notes workflow?  

step1:  complete the notes in vscode  
step2: push it into github  

## 3. What about pictures?  

step1: store the target picture in our machine, it will have a path, or we can have an online picture, which will have a url.
step2: create a folder in our repo for exclusively pictures.
step3: use markdown insert our picture into text file(the notes). Attention: we need relative path here, while the repo and our picture are fixed, there's no confusion that the relative path should point from repo's location to our picture's location

##  4. princple for git woroks  
always keep my remote and local repos sychronized, so you won't oversrite or lose work.  

## 5.local repo  

While creating a remote repo in github is easy, creata a local repo is trickier. We can clone our remote repo.

## 6. Summarize, Q&A 

### I. local file and local repo  
We wanna interact between local repo nd remote repo, which means the single file on the desktop won't help, updates on that won't count.  

### II. red line cutting file name?  
The files has been deleted in working directory but you have an unsaved version still open in the tab.  
If you wanna keep the file, just save it, or if you didn't mean to keep it, close the tab and the file is gone.  
Git won't kill the file unless you commited a deletion.  

### III. Single file object?  
It is totally useless since we're operating between local repo and remote repo, any update on the single file object is invisible for Git.  

### IV. How can we identify whether the page we're working in is a local repo folder or just a single file object from infromation given by a vscode page?  
(1). Look at the path above! is a repo's name included?  
(2). type git status in the terminal, see if fatal... jumps out.  


### V. How can we get to the local repo?  
Path switching command! You'd better know your local reepo folder's name.  

### VI. C:\Users\z1338 explanation?  
C: : the driver letter  
\Users : a folder in the root of the C: drive, storing users' personal files and settings  
\z1338:  My windows user account name  










